Johannesburg - Gauteng authorities on Thursday called for action over several videos showing what appears to be a caregiver beating children at a crèche in the West Rand. Earlier, three videos began circulating on social media showing a woman repeatedly strike the children in three separate incidents supposedly as punishment. In one harrowing video, the woman is seen spanking a child as the child is seen cleaning a table. In another more disturbing video, what appears to be the same woman is seen striking a little boy and pulling him by his clothes as she cleans the carpet. An upset Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi reacted to the disturbing videos, labelling it "disgusting" and appealing for help tracking down the crèche and teacher.     Disgusting!!! I couldn’t even finish watching it! Team @Steve_Mabona @EducationGP let’s hunt this creche! I am standby to pounce just get details https://t.co/kkwWJDirY6 The Social Development Department, in a Facebook post, condemned the videos and also urged users to come forward on more information on the creche. "We want to condemn the abuse of children and wish to ask members of the public to identify the school and the caregiver who is seen forcing toddlers to clean their classroom while meting out the harshest punishment to the children," the department said.   The department has dispatched social workers to the Carletonville crèche. It remains unclear when exactly the shocking incidents happened and whether any action has been taken against the caregiver yet. Calls to the crèche, believed to be in Carletonville, went unanswered at the time of publication. The video has since garnered strong reaction from users, who reacted in shock and anger at the abuse suffered by the children. See reactions below:     Where is this happening? Lord have mercy on that little child! This is why I never left my child in the hands of any caretakers. I will call the supervisor of this adult...more info please!     All I can say is that I hope I never meet this lady...I won’t be responsible for the action my body decides to take...I leave it there.     So she's getting a hiding because she was vomiting?! Shame im not well after seeing this. 😭😭     This lady is really sick in her head, parents pay so much for day care and this is the result, makes me very angry 😡😠 hope this kids parents charge her and close down that day care...