Javad Rashad, 42, of Denis Hurley (Queen) Street in the Durban CBD, said he had become suspicious last year when he asked about gaining access to some of his returns. The schwarma shop and linen business owner has since opened a case of theft under false pretences against his South African-born sister-in-law and is pursuing a civil claim against her for the money. He claimed that he handed over various amounts of money to the woman, a disbursement clerk, over the past two years. Rashad had become suspicious of her last year after repeatedly enquiring about his investments. “Over two years ago she said that if I had money to spare, I should invest it in the property and diamond market and I would see big interest, which would be great for my children’s future. I listened to her and in September 2016 wanted to place the investment on my wife’s name. “But she said the money would yield a higher return if the account was in her name, as she worked at the bank. I trusted her and never asked for bank statements.” He claimed that to date he had handed over various amounts of money to her at her workplace. He did not receive any receipt of proof of payment except for her writing the amount on a piece of paper, and signing it. Rashad had hoped to gain access to his investment in 2017 but claimed she had told him to reinvest the money for another year to get more interest. “I agreed. She also asked that my wife and I give her R25 000 each to invest in the gold market where we would see double the interest. I didn’t know I was just being fooled.” After his business hit a slump last year, he asked his sister-in-law for some of the money but claimed he was given the run-around and so he laid charges against her. He is also pursuing a civil claim. His attorney, Bilaal Bashir, said a letter of demand was sent to the sister-in-law in December. “She was given seven days to respond and pay the total demand of R495 000 and our costs, which she failed to comply with. We will now be pursuing the matter further and a summons will be served soon.” The sister-in-law could not be reached for comment. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed that a criminal case was being investigated.