Durban - A JOHANNESBURG businessman is sticking by his Facebook post that many believe degrades the holy Hindu Shivalingum, saying “the truth often offends and hurts”. On Saturday, Daniel Naicker wrote: “The Shivalingum is a Holy Word It means F******. makes U Think doesnt it.” A Shivalingum, sometimes referred to as linga or Shiva linga, is an abstract or an iconic representation of the Hindu deity Shiva. Facebook users lashed out at him, but Naicker did not retreat: “The Shivalingum is a holy word. It comprises the male component, which is the Lingum, and the female component, the Yoni,” he sought to explain to POST yesterday. He added that the union, the Shivalingum, was holy, a concept from the East. “When our forefathers arrived from India in search of work and fortune they brought this holy Shivalingum with them. The West, struggling with their own enlightenment, did not understand the holiness of this Shivalingum.” Naicker went on to say the sexual union was “F*** in the West”. He said his post was not offensive: “Truth offends and hurts But it’s still truth. Truth is like the sun it will burn.” Asked why he then removed the post and deactivated his Facebook account, he said his family was responsible for that. The president of the South African Hindu Dharma Sabha, Ram Maharaj, has since lodged complaints with the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities and the SA Human Rights Commission. Maharaj, who described the post as “unwarranted, inappropriate, offensive, pernicious and prejudicial”, encouraged the commission to approach the Equality Court if deemed necessary. “It is a historical fact that the Shivalingum is the most ancient form of God representation on earth dating back to 2000BC. The sacred Shivalingum is the supreme symbol of Lord Shiva who is God almighty.” The president of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, Ashwin Trikamjee, said the blasphemous behaviour by some “demented cowards on social media” must end. “Hinduism is always considered an easy target as the tolerant cultural practice is perceived as a weakness. Perhaps the time has come when Hindus need to identify the cowards and deal with them socially as well,” said Trikamjee. Jayanthie Jane Pillay, a devotee, and member of the Sathya Sai Organisation, who had taken the Facebook user to task, said: “There’s no fact to it. The post was demeaning, something you wouldn’t expect from anyone of any faith.” Ravi Thaver, who had also commented on the post, described Naicker as “misinformed”. He added: “He is negative and does not want to understand the true meaning of the word. He is just blurting out things because he believes it could be true. He didn’t bother to take the time to understand. “Religion teaches us not to hate one another. No scripture can validate religious intolerance. It’s people who are fanatical who show intolerance.” POST