Durban - Six people were arrested for different crimes during an intelligence operation which was held in the uThukela Cluster last Friday. Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, said the operation yielded positive results. Mbele said the uThukela Cluster Crime Intelligence Gathering Unit, Public Order Policing officers from Newcastle as well as officers from the Phoenix Tactical Response Team were a part of the operation. “A 22-year-old woman was arrested for possession of a CZ75 pistol and 14 rounds of ammunition. A 29-year-old man was arrested for possession of a pistol. A rifle was also found abandoned during the operation,” Mbele said. She said during the same operation, a 28-year-old man was arrested for a house robbery, with other suspects arrested in the Ladysmith city, Steadville and KwaMntandi areas. They were expected to appear in the Ladysmith Magistrates Court on Monday. “Detectives are confident the that suspect arrested for house robbery will be linked to other cases that occurred in the area,” she said. She said an operation conducted by officers from the KwaMsane Cluster Task Team led to the arrest of three suspects and the recovery of two pistols and a stolen television. “Suspects were arrested at Nkodibe area where two pistols with their serial numbers filed off were confiscated, 11 rounds of ammunition and a television. They will be charged for possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunition and possession of suspected stolen property,” she said. She said they are expected to appear in the KwaMsane Magistrates Court on Tuesday. Meanwhile, a couple was arrested for the possession of dagga on Saturday when officers from the uThukela Cluster Task Team conducted a stop and search in the Winterton area after the couple was stopped. “On searching the vehicle, police discovered dagga packed into bin bags in the boot of the vehicle. The recovered dagga weighed in at 56 kilograms and has a street value of R210 000,” she said. She said they face charges of being in possession of dagga and were expected to appear in the Winterton Magistrates Court on Monday. Daily News