She claimed she ended up at a massage parlour and was raped by her prospective employer. The suspect, 54, was arrested by the private security company Reaction Unit South Africa on Monday. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said the suspect was charged with rape and had been detained at the Tongaat police station until his appearance in court. The girl, 18, has fallen into a state of depression since the alleged attack. Her father said when she arrived home from the supposed interview last Wednesday, she was not herself. “She stayed in her room, away from us. She told her mother she was not feeling well and spent most of her time sleeping. She refused to eat or drink anything.” He said two days later, a friend in whom she had confided told her mother what had happened. The father said when his wife spoke to the daughter, she burst into tears. “My wife took her to the police station to open a charge and thereafter to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital for an examination. It was confirmed she had been raped. “As a family, we are broken.” He said all she had wanted was to help out financially at home. “I am a security guard and my wife a street vendor. Whatever money we earn goes toward our rent, water, and electricity. This amounts to about R3600 a month. My son suffers from epilepsy and sometimes we need to buy him medication. “I am speaking out because I don’t want other young women to become victims. What he did is not acceptable.” The head of Reaction Unit South Africa, Prem Balram, said last Monday, the girl was with her mother in the Tongaat CBD when the man approached: “He began talking to them and during the conversation, the girl claimed he offered her a job as a receptionist at his business. “They set up the interview for that Monday, but when she arrived at his business premises, she realised it was a massage parlour.” Balram said the man interviewed the victim in the presence of a second woman and allegedly asked her to return two days later (last Wednesday) at 8am for a second interview. “She said when she arrived, he had requested she return an hour later. When she returned, she found that the second female was no longer present and the owner himself continued with the interview.” Balram said the man had allegedly asked her if she would do massages part-time, so she could be given a permanent job as a receptionist. “The victim said she declined the job as a masseuse, but the man stated that this was a part of the interview process.” The victim was allegedly taken into a back room where the man removed his shirt and asked her to massage him. Balram said the teen had told him that the man had forcefully removed her jeans and underwear before he raped her. POST