Durban - FIVE of six men convicted of murder, attempted murder, business and various other serious crime charges committed in the Ladysmith area, were sentenced to life sentences and lengthy jail terms in the Pietermaritzburg High Court, recently. The men had robbed business premises in the Peacetown area in December 2014. Ladysmith detective members took over the investigation and sourced out information that led in the arrest of six accused at Ezakheni area few hours after the crime. According to police, the owner of the business had just opened his business when the accused arrived. Two security guards were shot and robbed of their firearms by the accused. “One guard died at the scene and the second guard was rushed to hospital with gunshot wounds. The businessman was severely assaulted and robbed of his cash, airtime vouchers and cellphones before the suspects fled the scene. “Cases of murder, attempted murder and business robbery were opened at Ladysmith police station for further investigation,” said police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane. During their arrest, a special revolver which was taken during the robbery was recovered from the accused. Cash, airtime vouchers and cellphones were also recovered. Thokozani Mvelase, 32, was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder, 10 years for attempted murder, 15  years for business robbery and 15 years for possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Sibusiso Gamede, 43, was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder, 10 years for attempted murder and 15 years for business robbery. Siphamandla Mabha Sithole, 26, was also sentenced to life imprisonment for murder, 10 years for attempted murder, 15 years for robbery and 15 years for possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Jabulani Lukhele, 26,  and Siboniso Nkosi, 25, were each sentenced to 30 years imprisonment for murder, eight years for attempted murder and 12 years for business robbery. Sixth accused, Khulekani Hlatshwayo, 28, made a confession and pleaded guilty to the crimes he committed was sentenced to 25 years for murder, five years for attempted murder and 15 years for robbery in February 2015. Zwane added, “Although the case against the six accused has been finalised but dedicated detective members are still searching for the other three suspects who are still outstanding and who were also part of the robbery.” POST