Durban - For 13 years Nompumelelo Majola had struggled to find permanent work in the nursing fraternity. However, her dreams were made a reality when she and 299 others were permanently appointed by the Department of Health earlier this week. The stimulus package, which was announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa, aims to boost the public health sector through the creation of more than 5 300 jobs throughout the country. The Department of Health is also finalising the appointment of 160 porters, 160 general orderlies, 50 pharmacy assistants and 150 artisans. Majola said it was on her day of her grandmother's funeral that she received a telephone call from the KZN Department of Health telling her that her application to work as an Enrolled Nursing Assistant had been successful. “I could not believe it, I was overjoyed,” said Majola who has an 11-year-old son. She has been placed at the Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital. “I’d like to thank President Cyril Ramaphosa and MEC Dhlomo for making our dreams come true.” At the nurses’ induction, held at Grey’s Hospital held on Thursday, there were plenty of tears of joy as nurses recounted their past struggles. An emotional Gugu Mdlalose, from KwaMashu, who has been placed at Wentworth Hospital, said: “This was going to be my 14th year of not working since qualifying as a nurse. I am extremely grateful to Bab’ Ramaphosa and the entire health team. May God bless you for all that you’ve done. We had become the laughing stock in the community,” she said, fighting back tears. KZN MEC Health Sibongiseni Dhlomo expressed his heartfelt gratitude to President Ramaphosa for the Stimulus Package, saying that its beneficiaries will be the vast majority of the population (80% of the people of KZN), who rely on the State for the health needs – particularly those in far-flung areas. “It is a beautiful coincidence that we are celebrating the induction and orientation of these 300 nurses in the same week that the initiator of this programme, our President uBab’ Ramaphosa is in this province,” said MEC Dhlomo. "Today, there are 300 families who have breadwinners. These nurses have brought tears of joy. They are saying they’ve been sitting at home for over 14 years, becoming the laughing stock in their communities. "These are the nurses who are at the bottom of the ladder of the nursing profession, but they mean so much to our people. We hope by injecting 300 of them, we’re going to have a change and bring meaning in terms of quality of service to our people.” Daily News