We start off the year with two mega projects slated for release on January 10. After the immediate success of 2.0, superstar Rajinikanth is back with a movie titled Petta. A directorial of the talented Karthik Subburaj, Petta is an action drama which sees Rajinikanth, a school warden, playing the protagonist. In addition, the movie has an ensemble cast including Vijay Sethupathi, Simran, Trisha, M Sasikumar, Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Bobby Simha. A major attraction, aside from Rajinikanth’s enigma, is the inclusion of “dream girl” Simran to the cast. Simran, who ruled the roost a decade ago, is making a comeback to Kollywood. The trailer shows a Rajinikanth reminiscent of the 80s and this will surely appeal to his fans. With his trademark punch lines and style quotient, the legendary Rajinikanth offers an ideal Pongal treat for his fans, among whom he enjoys a cult status. The music score is by Rajinikanth’s wife’s nephew, Anirudh Ravichander. In keeping with his trademark music score, songs from the movie, like Marana Mass, is the craze worldwide. This is the first time that Anirudh scores music for a Rajinikanth movie. Another much awaited movie for release on the January 10 is Ajith Kumar’s Viswasam. Sharing screen space with Ajith in this movie is Nayanthara. Directed by Siva, Viswasam has music by D Imman. Yogi Babu has been roped in for comic relief and this marks his 10th movie. South Africa will be joining in the worldwide release of Petta and Viswasam on January 10. Other movies slated for release in 2019 include: * Dev: After the huge box office success of Kadaikutty Singam, Karthi’s Dev is scheduled for release in February. An action movie, directed by Rajath Ravishankar, Dev sees Rakul Preet Singh play the female lead. * Nandha Gopalan Kumaran (NGK): Karthi’s older brother Suriya is hoping that his Nandha Gopalan Kumaran will fare much better than his 2018 release, Thaana Serntha Kootum. NGK is a Tamil political drama, helmed by Selvaragavan. Sharing screen space with Suriya are Rakul Preet and Sai Pallavi in the lead roles. Yuvan Shankar Raja scores the music for this movie. * Sarvam Thaala Mayam: GV Prakash’s offering for 2019 comes in the form of Sarvam Thaala Mayam. Directed by Rajiv Menon, Sarvam Thaala Mayam is a romantic drama about a talented musician from a lower caste, who breaks barriers by becoming a famous carnatic singer. GV Prakash’s maternal uncle, AR Rahman, composes music for this movie. This is the third time that AR Rahman and Rajeev Menon will be working together. Their first two movies, Minsara Kanavu (1997) and Kandukondein Kandukondein (2000), received critical acclaim. * Sathuranga Vettai 2: Sathuranga Vettai, a crime thriller, set the benchmark higher for thriller movies. As a result the sequel is eagerly awaited. Sathuranga Vettai 2, directed once again by Nirmal Kumar, is slated for release in March. * Karikalan: Fans of Vikram can expect his latest release Karikalan to hit our screens in the first half of 2019. The movie will see Vikram play the character of Karikalan Chola, one of the popular kings of the Chola dynasty, who ruled Tamil Nadu in the Sangam era. The female lead will be played by Zarine Khan.  Telugu movies include: * Praana: Praana is a romantic drama directed by VK Prakash and it stars Nithya Menon and Dulquer Salman in the lead roles. Louiz Banks scores music for Praana. * NTR Katha Nayakudu: This movie is a biopic of legendary actor and politician Nandamuri Taraka Rama Rao and is directed by Krish while MM Keeravani scores the music. Nandamuri Balakrishna plays the role of NTR. * Vinaya Vidheya Rama (VVR): VVR stars Ram Charan and Kiara Advani in the lead roles. This romantic action drama is directed by Boyapati Srinu and has the music of Devi Sri Prasad. With exciting times ahead, see you at the movies! * Lutchmanan is an educator, author and linguistic campaigner. She is also a presenter/producer at Lotus FM. You can hear her on Inisai Mazhai, Fridays from 6pm to 7pm, and The Best Of Kodambakkam, Sundays 10am to 1pm. POST