The woman, 65, of Phoenix, who declined to be named, said she had been in the process of winding up her late mother’s estate when she learnt she had been married and that her husband’s details would be required before proceeding. The news shocked her. Having never been in a relationship, let alone married, the woman went to the department for clarity. She had been married since 2000. She says she has no idea who the person is and believes she is a victim of a marriage scam. “My mother left the property and all her assets to me, as I had taken care of her for 15 years. “She had to wear diapers, and needed constant care. Before her death, she had left behind a will that stated I was the sole beneficiary of all her belongings. “After a year of completing all the rituals and prayers after a person dies, I decided that I would transfer her property to my name. During the process in the High Court, I was informed that their system had showed me as being married. “I was shocked and scared as I had never been married or been in a relationship. I dedicated all my time to taking care of my mother.” She was advised to go to the department but claimed she was given the run-around. “They said I was married and on the marriage certificate was a man’s name and just his date of birth. “However, the certificate had my identity number. When I told them I was not married and was a victim of a marriage scam, I was told to go get a police stamped affidavit, which I did. “When I returned to the department, they just gave me a reference number and a call centre contact number. They said I should call to check for any updates. “For the past two years I have been calling but every time I am told the same thing, the investigations are continuing and to keep checking.” The woman said her life had come to a standstill. “I cannot have the home transferred to my name, and the greatest fear is, what if I die suddenly, who will come claim my home?” She continued: “When I asked the people at the department what would happen, they told me the man could come and claim. This is unfair and frustrating. How is someone allowed to just steal your details and marry you without your consent?” Her relative said sham marriages compromised the lives of unsuspecting and innocent South African women. “My extreme concern is that foreign nationals, particularly from the subcontinents, are using South African women, notably Indian women, as conduits for obtaining citizenship and committing other unsavoury acts through criminal means. “These women are then literally hamstrung in continuing their lives normally with an unhelpful bureaucracy compounding their woes.” The spokesperson for the Department of Home Affairs, David Hlabane, said: “We have no record of the client’s complaint. However, upon receiving supporting documents, it will assist us in expediting the matter.” POST