The requirement now features prominently on its website. While some have said this was a step in the right direction, others said additional security measures were required to protect vulnerable pupils against sex pests in the teaching profession. Sace, the statutory professional council for teachers, took the decision after receiving 70 complaints involving teacher misconduct last year. An earlier study by the council showed that 326 cases of sexual assault of pupils were reported countrywide in a year. Gauteng had the most cases (67) with KZN totalling 64. The study revealed that 70 of the 326 alleged offenders were aged between 35 and 44, while 46 were aged between 45 and 54. Some of the allegations against teachers included them having intimate relationships with pupils and sexual harassment. The Chairman of the Parents Association KZN, Vee Gani, said the council’s policy would provide some level of comfort, but additional safety measures were needed. “When a parent places a child in school, they have many fears, and at the forefront is safety. Their one expectation is for the teacher to take care of their child. “But you will find those few people (sexual predators) will slip under the radar. Alternatively, some of them may have a clear criminal record at first, but they could start behaving differently in a few years.” Gani said the same requirement should extend to current teachers: “It may be a long process, as we have more than 90 000 teachers in KZN alone, but I am sure the council will implement a plan to have all checked. It is evident they are serious about combating crimes against pupils.” A consultant at the Institute for Security Studies, Johan Burger, said while Sace’s intention was well-meaning, it could not be a once-off process. “There needs to be an ongoing measurement to ensure teachers maintain a clean record, and pupils are not violated,” Burger said. He suggested schools consider developing a confidential reporting system, as pupils were often afraid to speak out to other teachers and their principals. Burger said that programmes should also be introduced to provide children with warning signs in relation to sexual abuse. “These campaigns should also be held for teachers, to inform them of what is and what is not appropriate behaviour when dealing with pupils, and the consequences and dangers of misconduct.” He said the aim of these suggestions was to protect children now, and not have them speak out a decade later about the abuse when the “damage is already done and irreparable”. The chief executive officer of the teacher union Naptosa KZN, Thirona Moodley, said: “Any new requirement ensuring the safety of a child is welcomed. “We’d rather be safe than sorry. We don’t believe this (vetting) decision will be a disadvantage to any teachers, and we are of the view that - in terms of Section 28.2 of the Constitution - the rights of a child are paramount.” The spokesperson for the Department of Basic Education, Elijah Mhlanga, said they fully supported Sace. “Any effort and initiative aimed at protecting the integrity of the profession is appreciated. It is about time we clamp down on criminal elements in the system and deal with sex pests, so the measure put in place to check criminal records is a good start.” Sace spokesperson, Themba Ndhlovu said the council took the decision in March 2018 to demand a police clearance certificate from all applicants. The requirement came into effect on January 1. “We aim to protect and enhance the dignity of the teaching profession by ensuring that all those individuals registered are beyond reproach,” Ndhlovu said. “For any teacher to be employed, he or she must first be registered with Sace and, therefore as part of the registration requirement, teachers must submit a police clearance certificate. “At this stage, we are still only looking at newly qualified teachers registering, and we are in consultation with stakeholders in relation to those teachers that are already in the system having to also follow this process.” POST