Durban - HISTORY teaches us that if you’re going to be a comedy duo, it’s all about being in sync, so much so that you don’t even have to try to be funny, it just happens. Think Laurel and Hardy, Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor, and Will Ferrell and John C Reilly. The Dingalings’ Henry Ramkissoon and Koobeshen Naidoo are a good local example of how a long-time friendship and working relationship - 15 years to be exact - can translate into such synergy. Whether performing in a comedy skit, stage show, or stand-up routine, the duo share a camaraderie that feeds off each other, resulting in a rip-roaring experience for the crowd. Naidoo explained that their relationship dated back to the 1980s when he “rescued” Ramkissoon from a group of long-legged lasses at university. “We met at the drama department at the then University of Durban-Westville. I first saw him in the quad in our first week at university and he was being harassed by older students. “He was being initiated by this group of tall girls and I went to his rescue. Ever since then he has been glued to my side. “I promised him never to repeat this story but I guess it is now time to reveal the truth,” he laughed. “Henry and I have been doing comedy together for over 15 years as part of The Dingalings. He was just as funny and crazy at university as he is now and we just hit it off from then. “When we are on stage, it’s like we know exactly what the other one is thinking or going to say. “This anticipation keeps the excitement going between us and, no matter what happens, we know we have each other’s backs. “Very often we improvise on stage and we trust each other to know we’ll get back on track. “The main thing is that both of us are similar in how weirdly we view the world and this helps us connect on stage.” This weekend Ramkissoon and Naidoo will perform in Mixed Nuts - an ensemble show. “It’s a stand-up show dealing with issues confronting people in KZN, with a spectrum of comedians. On the bill are Arnotte Payne, Kelvin Stoffels, Henry and myself. “Each of us has a unique way of presenting and delivering our jokes. These are the nuts that take you through how we cope with wives, children, work, the festive season and money; basically things that affect all of us.” Golden Horse’s general manager, Maureen Kivits, said: “The Dingalings’ previous performance here at the casino was such a great success, and we are quite certain that this show will be the epitome of comedy events here in Pietermaritzburg.” * Tickets are available through Computicket. POST