Durban - Berea police are on the hunt for those responsible for a housebreaking syndicate that targeted suburbs in the area this past weekend. They are warning residents to be on high alert following a shooting and attempted housebreaking at the weekend. On Monday, an armed response officer escaped serious injuries during a shootout with the gang. Blue Security spokesperson, Andreas Mathios, said the armed response officer responded to the scene of a housebreaking at a business premises in Venice Road just after 5:30am. “The officer noticed a silver grey Chevrolet Aveo parked outside the premises and a gang of approximately five suspects ran through the pedestrian gate, carrying electronic goods. They got into the vehicle and one of the suspects then opened fire on the officer as the vehicle sped off,” Mathios said. He said the officer returned fire and the men continued firing at him. “He followed the vehicle to the intersection of Burman Drive and Trematon Drive but the suspects managed to get away after turning into Trematon Drive and heading in the direction of Windermere Road,” Mathios said. Mathios said upon further investigation it was found that the suspects had forced open a pedestrian gate and the front door and security gate to gain entry onto the premises. Berea SAPS attended the scene of the crime. He warned Berea and Morningside residents to be on high alert as this was the second incident reported in Venice Road believed to be committed by the same gang at the weekend. A third attempted housebreaking incident was also reported in Curry Road on Saturday. Mathios said a resident had also reported an attempted housebreaking in Venice Road after he spotted suspects drive onto his premises in a silver Chevrolet Aveos on Saturday. “The resident was in his lounge watching television when he heard loud banging sounds and realised that suspects were attempting to break into the premises. He saw his driveway gates opening and the Aveo driving onto his property. He pressed his panic button and the suspects fled the scene without taking anything,” Mathios said. Mathios said upon investigation it was found that the suspects had broken a pedestrian gate to gain access to the gate motor, which they had tampered with to open the driveway gate. Mathios added that a gang of five suspects had also attempted to break into a property in Curry Road on Saturday. “The suspects forced open a pedestrian gate and then tried to gain entry into the house. The resident pressed a panic button and the suspects fled the scene in a silver/grey SUV,” Mathios said. Residents are warned to report any suspicious vehicles in their area, to police. THE MERCURY