They complained about the long wait, saying they should not have to bear the brunt as staff struggled to cope with the backlog of issuing and renewing driver’s licence cards. A motorist from Asherville, in Overport, had been in the line from 7am. This was the third time he had been to the Pinetown office to renew his licence. “To stand in the blistering heat for hours is agonising, especially when you don’t even have a guarantee that you will be seen to.” Another motorist could not understand why it took so long to process an application “when they already have our details”. “I am standing in more or less the same spot from 11am and it’s almost 2pm. “Why can’t they give us the forms that need to be completed while we wait, so we can fill it in instead of there being an added delay when we get inside for our eye tests and fingerprints?” A third motorist said: “If we don’t get our licence in time, we drive around as unlicensed drivers and will be fined. This will just result in more money going into the pockets of the state.” At the Verulam licensing office, a motorist who arrived at 10am looked at the line, got his application form, took a picture of the operating times and left. Another, who had been waiting from 6am, said he had no choice but to wait because he was unable to return another day. “I had to take the day off from work just to apply for my licence renewal. ” The man was not attended to on the day. A Verulam businessman said he applied for a new licence four months ago and was still waiting. Independent Newspapers visited the KwaDukuza and Rossburgh motor licencing offices last week, where residents had complained about being told to return. Metro police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad said while he understood there was a backlog at testing stations, those driving without a valid licence or temporary licence could be fined up to R2000. He said there was nothing that could be done about those driving without a temporary licence - and that they had to face the legal consequences. Testing stations need to play catch up after Driving Licensing Card and Account employees, who produce licences, downed tools in July. This resulted in a backlog in issuing new or renewed licence cards. The workers had been employed at the company for 20 years before it was taken over by the Department of Transport in 2015. They were demanding permanent jobs during the strike. Motorists were not immediately affected by the strike, but the waiting periods for licences increased as time went on. Apart from receiving fines from traffic law enforcers for not carrying their licences, motorists have been experiencing problems when purchasing new vehicles - dealerships may only release the vehicle on receiving a copy of the buyer’s valid licence. Themba Masango of the #NotInMyName campaign, who supported the striking employees, confirmed they had returned to work and were producing thousands of cards each day. POST