Durban - Teacher Union Naptosa KZN commended the provincial department of education for the results attained by the Class of 2018. Naptosa’s KZN (National Professional Teachers Organisation of SA) chairperson, Marian Bruce, said with KZN’s 63.4% pass rate for progressed matrics, the overall pass rate of 76.2%, the 121 schools with 100% passes and the 3.3 percentage point increase from the previous year, the department had to be commended. “For this, Naptosa KZN commends the KZN Provincial Education Department led by Dr Enoch Nzama for its commitment to improve the provinces performance. NAPTOSA KZN would also like to recognize the hard work and dedication of MEC Dlungwane for his commitment to improving education in the province and for the continued support of the Premier, Willies Mchunu,” said Bruce. She said they were pleased by the results and applauded the 12 education districts in the province for all attaining pass rates above 70%.This is indicative of the collective commitment towards education. NAPTOSA KZN congratulates the Amajuba district on its attainment of an 81.7% pass rate, making it the top performing district in KwaZulu-Natal for the 2018 NSC exams. “NAPTOSA KZN welcomes the introduction of the Technical-Occupational-Vocational pathway that has been introduced to learners. This caters for a wider range of capabilities of our learners,” she said. With the introduction of the three streams of education - technical, occupational and vocational - the union said it hoped parents and pupils would consider alternative streams, although they called for greater support to special schools. “This would ensure that a larger number of learners can sit for the NSC exams in the future,” she said.The union called on the department to address shortages with subject advisors, safety and security at schools, infrastructure and health challenges. The teacher union said those who had not succeeded should not give up.“NAPTOSA KZN wishes to encourage those candidates in the province who were unsuccessful in achieving their goals, to take advantage of the Multiple Examination Opportunities that are now available to all learners”.