Durban - Set to be one of SA’s top three exclusive malls, construction on the highly anticipated Oceans Mall, will commence next month. Oceans Umhlanga chairman, Vivian Reddy confirmed this week that the 36 000 square metre building, which forms part of the R4,5 billion International Oceans Umhlanga Mixed-Use development in Umhlanga, will take 18 months to complete. The project is also expected to create 500 direct and 2000 indirect jobs. It will boast 103 retail outlets and would incorporate 22 international iconic luxury fashion brands, 12 restaurants, a supercar dealership and SA’s first snow-park. “SA’s first snow park and an Ice Bar is something that is expected to draw crowds from afar and create an exuberant destination in itself apart from uniquely complementing the shopping experience. Visitors will be able to frolic in the snow, quench their thirst and satisfy their hunger pangs in plush restaurants and then walk across the street and dive into the ocean and enjoy the pristine Umhlanga promenade and beach.” The presence of iconic international brands, which are apparently not available in any other mall in KZN, is also said to create a distinctive and defining feature called the Platinum Walk at Oceans Mall. “This is definitely going to be the most aspirational mall in KwaZulu-Natal and will transform the lifestyle of the entire northern region and its style of luxurious, exciting shopping,” said Reddy. Restaurants will include Hard Rock Café, Rockets, Donatellas and Nikos and many firsts for Durban. The entire development will contain 2500 parking bays which will incorporate VIP parking. City manager, Sipho Nzuzu said that the eThekwini Municipality was proud to boast such an edifice and was looking forward to this state-of-the-art mall with its great socio-economic impact in the region. “It is well-known that Durban is one of the fastest developing metros in South Africa.” “We are continuously drawing big spenders, who want to take advantage of the warm weather and fantastic tourism infrastructure. This mall will clearly satisfy their needs.” POST 