Vicky Kaushal plays a respected, dedicated soldier Vihaan, who is known for his well-planned and army-related missions. After a successful mission, he wishes to retire from army life, as his mother needs him. It isn’t long before his motherland needs him and beckons on his expertise to lead the mission in response to the terrorist strikes on the Indian Army base at Uri that saw 19 soldiers perish while asleep. Director Aditya Dhar ensures a tight grip of the realistic screenplay. At most times, the film is purely an exhibitionist drama which merely relays an episode of history and lacks the essentials of an actuality war or battle film mainly because the screenplay is not written the right way. I felt the movie’s writers could have equipped themselves with more in-depth research regarding the incidents and provided something we have not already been exposed to in newspaper or media reports. For the most part of it, the narrative is straightforward and predictable. There is also a parallel emotional family angle involving the central character which, at first, seems an over-indulgent drama but it makes up for what is lacking from a not-so-perfect screenplay and casting jitters. What glows most certainly is Kaushal’s strong, capable and dedicated performance. He is an adequate lead who puts on a resounding physical display of the military major; steering the entire film reliably even when the director falls short in doing so. The others in the cast give above-average performances. That includes Yami Gautam, Kirti Kulhari and Paresh Rawal. The cinematography and VFX deserve a special mention for creating the appropriate mood and visual environment. It definitely assists the director to achieve his vivid imagination in a convincing manner. It’s good that the film does not imitate others while using a time-appropriate setting to enhance the embattled appeal of its storyline basis, considering that this is a real-life story. The dialogues are routine, some of them verbal attacks across the border but not resorting to lengthy interactions. Even the music score is contemporary. Worthwhile for exhibiting already stated facts with a towering performance by its lead star, Kaushal. * Sookhun is a popular LotusFM personality with a 20-year history of working in the entertainment industry. You can follow him on Instagram,v@im_varshan; Facebook and Twitter @varshansookhun POST