Durban - FOR parents who have lost their children under bizarre circumstances, coping with death is particularly complex.They find themselves questioning how or what could have been done to prevent these tragedies. For the family of Kiyan Singh, an aspiring soccer player who died after a goalpost fell on him last month, the healing process has scarcely begun. Kiyan, 8, a Grade 2 pupil at Atholton Primary in uMhlanga, was a member of Juventus FC (Junior). It is believed he had been standing on the sidelines, near the goalpost at the Riverside Football Club in Durban North, when heavy winds resulted in it falling. His father, Sahil Singh, told POST this week that it had been difficult to accept what had happened. “We did the formal thing of saying goodbye, but it doesn’t feel real. It has been a shock to our system and we are battling,” said Singh. “As parents, we should not expect that something like this could happen.” Eighteen months earlier, another child was killed by a goalpost in Johannesburg, he said. “When professional players play, the field is checked thoroughly. “This should be done locally as well and at all levels of the sport because it’s important for us to have peace of mind when we send our kids for extra activities. Parents need to take more responsibility and look out for the possible threats as it’s better to be safe now than sorry later.” He said the incident was still being investigated. The child’s grandfather, Naren Sangham, a prominent Pietermaritzburg lawyer, said at the time: “We need to get to the bottom of what caused this. For a goalpost not to have been secured, for a gust of wind to pick it up and cause this.” He said the supervision of the children on the field had been “totally inadequate”. In another unusual loss, Lungelisa Libazi - the grandmother of Grade 2 pupil Siziphiwe Libazi - said they would never forget her death. Siziphiwe, 7, was playing at the gate of the Clare Estate home her family were renting when an outside wall collapsed on her and her friend Sisanda Ndlala, 5, in May. Siziphiwe died at the scene, while Sisanda was taken to hospital. She has since recovered. Libazi said while time had healed some of their wounds, her daughter, Ongeziwe Libazi, mother of Siziphiwe, still yearned for her child. “We still ask the question: Why? We need her (Siziphiwe), but we cannot change anything.” Their landlord, Hajra Naseem, said: “We have never forgotten what happened. “Every day we remember and every day we comfort the family as much as we can. The little girl was like our own. “We found that the wall collapsed because the roots of a tree were growing underneath and had weakened it.” She continued: “This has been an eye-opener for us all. We are always looking out for our children and for the types of dangers that could be lurking, but we never expected this.” Mogie Maduray, who lost two of her children - one in a road accident and the other in the Throb Nightclub tragedy in 2000 - said dealing with such loss meant lifelong pain for all parents. She started the parent support group, Compassionate Friends, to help others deal with their losses Maduray can be contacted at 0832545027. POST