Ramadaan 2019 will most likely begin on the evening of Monday, May 6 (pending the moon-sighting on Sunday evening). It will most likely end on the evening of Tuesday, June 4 (also pending the moon-sighting on Tuesday evening) – as per the Jamiatul Ulama KZN. The period of fasting and introspection leads up to the celebration of Eid ul-Fitr, the day after Ramadaan ends. Popular cookbook author Jameela Sayed recently launched the latest edition of her cookbook, Cooking Creations. Sayed, who launched her first recipe book in 2016, said she had had a passion for cooking from a young age. “Asha Maharaj was my first inspiration. I listened and noted all her recipes she shared on radio some 30 years ago. Then it is my baby sister; I learnt a lot from her.” Sayed said the fourth edition of her exclusive-themed creations was designed to help readers “wow your guests”. “The themes consist of various mouth-watering delicacies such as cakes, biscuits, desserts, drinks and ice creams. “All my recipes are simple and easy to follow, making it easy for working moms, single dads, and perfect for the young ones who can use the books and produce excellent results without adult supervision.” Sayed's tips for food preparation during Ramadaan: 1. Always prepare in advance. 2. Making a weekly meal plan works well for me. 3. Marinate your meat or chicken in the morning. 3. It’s easier to grill than cook on the stove top. 4. Halve the recipe for cooking and desserts because when you fast you can’t eat much. This way you don’t waste. 5. Try to eat healthily during Ramadaan. It’s a good time to lose weight without much effort * Instagram @cookingandbakingcreations / Facebook: Cooking and baking creations by Jameela Sayed Recipe: Tandoori Kebabs (Jameela Sayed)    Method   Kajooras (Jameela Sayed)    Method    Chicken Haleem (Jameela Sayed)  STEP 1   Boil all the ingredients together for one hour until done. Blend with a stick blender.  STEP 2   Braise the onion in the oil until golden. Add the chicken and spices and allow to braise well. Add the grated tomatoes and cook for 30 minutes or until all the water dries out (allow it to get slightly caught at the bottom of  the pot) then mash.  STEP 3 Mix steps 1 and 2 together. ADD   Add enough boiling water to make the right consistency. Allow to cook on medium heat.  TO BRAISE    Heat the ghee and oil in a pan. Add the onions and fry until golden. Add to dhall and stir well. Add more boiling water if needed and allow to cook on low heat for 30 minutes. Salt and chillies can be added according to taste.  Garnish with dhania, mint and green chillies.